# Tidy data preparation course project

## R-script description and usage 
There are 3 sub-functions one to download and unzip files  
and 2 to generate 2 tidy datasets and main function that run all these functions.

### Main script  save data into text files
data_preparation_script <- function()
It is enough to run it without parameters to download activity data, get tidy data with grouped averages and save them into text file.

### Download zip archive into working directory and extract it
download_samsung_data <- function() 

### Load data from extracted files into datasets, prepare 2 tidy datasets and save them
run_analysis <- function() 
This function return dataset with all mean and standard deviation values. They has not beem grouped yet.

### Calculate average of all variables for each activity and each subject
averages_by_subject_and_activity <- function(tidy_activity_data_set)
This function take tidy dataset, generated by run_analysis and return grouped by activity and by subject averagres

### Write tidy data to text files
write_datasets <- function(mean_std_tidy_data , grouped_tidy_data)
The function just write data into files: "all_mean_std_tidy_data.txt", "grouped_mean_std_tidy_data.txt".

I tried to comment code in extensive manner. Please refer to run_analysis.R file to find more information.

# The code book

## Data source

The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

Here are the data for the project: 
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.

## Study design

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details.  

## Code book details: Information about variables and summary choices

According to the project design to prepare final tidy dataset from raw data distributed in different files we have:
1. merged training and test data together;
2. extracted from original dataset only mean and standard deviation for each mesurement;
3. changed activity codes to descriptive activity names according to dictionary;
4. changed variable names to make them more descriptive;
5. made from tidy dataset generated on steps 1-4 new tidy dataset with averages for each activity and for each subject.

Variables in final dataset with averages for all mesurements means and standard deviations groped by activity and subject:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26
27.
28.
29.
30.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
